The NBA’s history in China is more than three decades old. China Central Television struck a deal with the league in 1987 to offer games for free, and their relationship prospered in the 1990s, as the Chicago Bulls were busy winning championships and Michael Jordan was becoming a global icon.
The NBA has only become more popular in China since then. The league’s official Chinese-language account on Weibo Inc’s short messaging service has more followers than its account on Twitter. Floor seats to the Lakers vs. Nets game on Thursday were being sold for more than $2,500 before they vanished from an Alibaba-backed ticketing site as remnants of the NBA continued to disappear.
China has 300 million basketball players, nearly as many people as there are in the U.S., and roughly 500 million viewers watched the NBA last season on Tencent Sports, the streaming platform that recently extended its deal with the league for more than $1.5 billion over five years. That deal was a “massive indicator for the perceived value and enormous potential of the China market,” the Shanghai-based sports-research firm Mailman Group wrote in a recent report.
The league’s carefully plotted strategy over the course of more than 30 years has given the NBA a negotiating gambit that eluded Hollywood studios, Marriott, Gap, Delta Airlines and other fixtures of corporate America that have scrambled to appease China.
“The NBA has leverage in China, if it works as a united front,” Bishop wrote in his Sinocism newsletter this week. “They cannot and will not shun an entire league. Do you really think those fans are going to be satisfied watching CBA games? There would be a social stability cost to banning the NBA in China.”
The Friday night tweet by Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey, on a banned platform in China, has suddenly thrust the NBA into the turbulent waters of Sino-American politics. The NBA represents one of the strongest links between the U.S. and China, diplomats and business executives said, and Morey’s tweet about the protests in the semiautonomous city of Hong Kong has called attention to the global powers’ disagreements on trade, cybersecurity and human rights.
The NBA also found itself on the wrong end of another backlash in the U.S. The league’s initial response to the China pushback was lambasted by American politicians. The NBA’s response managed to unite elected officials on the left and right, from Democratic presidential candidates Elizabeth Warren and Beto O’Rourke to Republican senators Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, who attacked the league for appearing to value profits over free speech.
Silver responded on Tuesday: “For those who question our motivations, this is about far more than growing our business.”
This isn’t the first instance of frosty relations between the NBA and China. CCTV pulled NBA games in 1999 after a U.S.-led coalition of bombers destroyed China’s embassy in Belgrade in what Washington claimed was a mistake. The broadcaster also kept NBA games off the air longer than other forms of entertainment for a period in 2008 following a number of criticisms of China by players.
But people around the Chinese sports industry say the NBA’s success in China is the result of its sustained effort to cultivate a fan base—and keep government authorities pleased.

On the cusp of taking power in China in 2012, Xi went to Los Angeles and cheered on Kobe Bryant and the Lakers. He’s remained a fan since then, and he officiated at the FIBA basketball World Cup’s opening ceremony in August. The league also caters to Beijing’s desire to groom a next generation of basketball players, as part of an official policy to build China “into a leading sports nation,” by hosting prospects at academies from eastern Shandong Province to the northwestern region of Xinjiang.
But there has never been a test of the NBA’s relationship with China like this one, and the uncertainty is only increasing with both sides digging in.
“We’ll find out over the next few weeks and months whether the idea that the NBA has more leverage in China is true,” Bishop said. “It could be very wrong.”
